::: center
Sedgefield, Western Cape\
cell:+27-68-665-8247\
[email:bruceg72\@pm.me](mailto:bruceg72@pm.me)\
[Blog](https://mojojojoe.github.io)\
[LinkedIn](https://linkedin.com/in/brucegraham72)
:::

# Summary {#sec:org88a9c8e}

A result-driven professional with experience in quantitative analysis,
financial modeling, and business operations. He successfully managed an
investment portfolio, built data-driven forecasting models, modeled
expenses, and demonstrated entrepreneurial acumen as a business founder.
Proficient in levering advanced analytical tools and techniques, he can
deliver actionable insight.

# Core Skills {#sec:orgcb4576c}

## Financial Analysis

Portfolio management, cash-flow modeling, expense analysis & budgeting,
and capital asset allocation.

## Technical Expertise

Advanced Excel, R, Python, SQL, time-series analysis, regression
modeling. Data Visualization: Tableau, matplotlib, ggplot2.

## Decision analysis

Operational optimization, and decision support.

## Communication

Clear reporting of complex data, stakeholdeer engagement, and mentoring.

# Professional Experience {#sec:orgea298b5}

## Research Analyst {#sec:org202e69b}

*Intelligo/Employ Africa **Oct 2024 -- Present***

Conduct detailed market and financial analysis to inform investment
decisions. Collaborate with cross-functional teams to evaluate risk and
optimize asset performance.

## Private Investor {#sec:org5797751}

*Self-employed **Jan 2016 -- Apr 2022***

Managed and optimized a diversified investment portfolio, achieving
consistent returns through data-driven strategies. Conducted in-depth
analysis of equities, bonds, and alternative assets to assess risks and
opportunities. Developed financial models for portfolio forecasting,
enhancing decision-making precision.

## Business Founder {#sec:org7714969}

*Wilfredo\'s Ice Cream Company, Cape Town **Jan 2008 -- Oct 2015***

Built and scaled a profitable business from the ground up, managing all
financial, operational, and marketing aspects. Designed an Excel-based
profitability and growth model, saving financiers millions through
accurate cash flow predictions. Negotiated supplier contracts and
optimized inventory management to maximize profit margins.

## Learning Specialist (Data Visualization) {#sec:orgb118b82}

*EdX/2U,USA **Nov 2023 -- Aug 2024***

Provided mentorship and support to students in data visualization boot
camps, enhancing their analytical and technical skills. Reviewed
assignments to ensure accuracy and relevance, offering constructive
feedback.

## Science Editor {#sec:orgc4b6012}

/Enago Life Sciences, Singapore \*Jul 2023 -- May 2024\*/\
*Cactus Global, India **Apr 2022 -- Jul 2023***

Edited 200+ research manuscripts, ensuring clarity and accuracy in data
analysis and technical content. Applied expertise in statistical methods
and data interpretation to enhance manuscript quality.

# Education {#sec:org8b546db}

## Actuarial Society of South Africa

Cape Town, South Africa \| **2016--2021** \[sec:org5c3135c\]

Financial Mathematics and Business Reporting (FB)

## University of South Africa

Pretoria, South Africa **1994--2004** \[sec:orgf613e05\]

BSc in Mathematics, Statistics, and Operational Research

# Technical Skills {#sec:orgc30c0c8}

## Programming& Tools

R, Python, SQL, LaTeX \[sec:org650648a\]

## Modeling Techniques

Time-series analysis, regression analysis, profitability modeling
\[sec:org0aae07a\]

## Software Proficiency

MS Excel (advanced), Tableau, Power BI, MATLAB \[sec:org84c2230\]

# Languages {#sec:org17bb882}

# English

Native

# Afrikaans

Fluent
